# Types of attacks

There are several different types of cyber-attacks depending on how they are executed. The nature of these attacks can vary depending on various factors such as the intentions of the attacker and the tools that are used for the attack. More often than not, the purpose of these attacks is to either gain complete control of the system, to steal sensitive information, or both.


## System controls
Attacks would often like to take charge of the victim's computer and play around with it. This could either mean rendering the system useless for the victim or making a stealth attempt to gain access without the victim knowing about it. A very famous set of attacks in this category are called remote access tool attacks. These attacks provide the attacker with complete or near-complete control of the victim's PC remotely. We have already discussed forward and reverse shells, which are used for these purposes quite frequently.


## Social engineering
In simple terms, social engineering means manipulating or tricking someone into giving you the information. you can simply trick the person into
giving you information to carry out a cyber-attack.

There are two fundamental aspects of cybersecurity:
1. technical aspect
2. human aspect

security system is as good as its weakest link. The weakest link in the security of the system is people No system is secure if you have the key to breaking it.


## Baiting
Baiting simply means luring the target to bait and then waiting for the target to make a mistake. For example, hackers often drop USB drives filled with malware near the offices of organizations and wait until some employee gets curious and plugs the USB into their computer. Once they do so, the rest of the job is done by the malware.


## Phishing
Phishing is an attack technique in which attackers impersonate someone the target trusts. Usually, they try to take advantage of people's interests. Usually, they try to take advantage of people's interests. For example, if someone is a football fan, they are more likely to open an email or a link related to the topic of football and thus provide the attacker with a means to attack the victim. A common example of this attack is clone websites hosted by the attacker. An attacker would send a fake link to the target that resembles a website known to the target. However, the website will be hosted by the attacker and instead of going to the real website, the target will be directed to this website. These cloned websites look very similar to the original ones and if you are not careful, it is very hard to distinguish. Since this cloned website is operated by the hacker, any data that the user enters goes to the hacker. A good way to detect these fake websites is to check the website name along with the protocol. A real website will mostly operate on the https protocol.


